---
template: post
title: Present as Prologue
subtitle: 'An excerpt from MIGHT: a novel'
date: 2019-10-16T04:00:00Z
thumb_img_path: ''
content_img_path: ''
excerpt: ''

---
_What follows is the Prologue to a memoir manuscript titled_ WILL _by Grover Parsons, discovered in 2046, still in progress._

_The complete manuscript is to be published in 2022 under the title_ MIGHT_, a novel by B.A. Dominick._

Years before I helped Apricity Carter usher in the New, I helped her do away with the particularly heinous firearms she taught us to call “rampage rifles”. My story would climax and hers would end nearly seven years later, she and I crouched side by side with classmates, the barrels of our spent M4 carbines radiating as much irony as heat. But if my story has a beginning, it would have to be August 13, 2019, which Apricity and I spent 2,000 miles apart, years before we would meet, both watching gun owners “mine” a unit of cryptocurrency by destroying a weapon in front of witnesses.

Apricity was in Texas that day, somewhere near her southern headquarters outside Fort Worth. She would witness her 150th mining, but no media outlets even noted the milestone. Apricity herself posted just once about it to Twitter, the era’s most open social network, where Apricity by then had more than eight million followers. The movement was much bigger than Apricity Carter by then.

Less newsworthy still was the mining event I attended, several miles east of Olympia, Washington, where I grew up. It may have been my first, but it was the 12,233,451st event of its kind, and one of 120,979 rendering events recorded onto the Lifecoin ledger that day. At midnight that morning, one digital Lifecoin could have bought you a decent used car. By midday, you could have had that car’s sound system replaced. If you had kept that currency in your digital wallet until the end of the week, you could have bought a year’s worth of gasoline for the car, as well. That was the upside of how investment worked in the Old.

The Disarmory campaign was more than just the funding mechanism of the Reboot, as it is sometimes relegated. It was the actual moment youth became the dominant force for change after having barely been noticed in all of history. So there can be no understanding my story or that of ZeroBloc’s founders without knowing the story of Disarmory and the dawn of the Youth Age.

To set the scene properly, I need to take you back to a time before the Reboot, even before ZeroBloc—back to Old America in rapid decline under a maniacal, authoritarian president put in office by a backward-looking electorate mob, not to mention meddling by everyone from foreign powers to the nation’s Founding Fathers. Seemingly everyone and everything was legitimately to blame for Donald Trump’s ascension. Years later, Apricity would call it “a massive historical ‘accident’ that resulted from our society being perfectly set up to make it.”

By 2019, anyone reasonable and honest could see that the US system was a sham. After all, it had produced a literal clown as “leader of the free world”, a phrase people once used to refer to the United States president without a hint of the sarcasm the notion had always deserved. My generation was coming to learn that it was never Trump, but rather the terribly designed system that nobody bothered fixing for hundreds of years because it primarily rewarded the decision-making class.

Whereas my generation was far from power and seemingly always would be, so the absurdity of Old America was on full display. Our parents and their parents stood helpless, millions of slack-jawed adults throwing up their hands at the world they inherited. For instance, the country was waging several wars across numerous Islamic countries, two of which had gone on longer than I had been alive, and none of which made the daily news. Millions had no way to access healthcare until it was too late, at which point it drove them straight into poverty. Throughout the land, US federal agents were tearing refugee families apart, locking everyone up, deporting the parents, and losing track of the children. All this occurred while our elders watched, either in horror or glee. As politicians they despised went about rewiring our economy, waging secret wars in our name, and depriving us of safety, our elders admonished us to be ”proud” that we lived in a ”democracy”.

The wide world was full of terrifying things, but for young people, most threats felt far away in space and time, seemingly all out of our control. Many of those distant fears have long since come to pass, such as the plagues, or come to settle, like the heat, sea rise, and insects. Only in retrospect do we appreciate how frightened we should have been of much more than a warming planet, and how woefully our predecessors prepared us for what they damn well knew was coming.

Yet amid all this, the baseline constant of terror for kids my age was the shadow cast by a two-decades-long series of mass killings committed by angry white men and boys. Secondary schools were the most popular target for these massacres, so attending one in the late 2010s often entailed mandatory active-shooter drills, which taught us to run or cower. Some portion of kids had always lived in terror of their parents, teachers, priests, coaches, cops, gangs, and other bullies, but _all_ of us shared a horror unique to our generation: the dread that someone might storm into the classroom and murder us. This was not a case of kids getting worked up over an urban myth; adult authorities everywhere were propagating this fear, at school, in the media, and often at home.

Throughout this crisis, the politicians tasked with addressing these incidents failed to appreciate the impacts of the violence, the fear-mongering, and the waterlogged official response were having on nearly everyone under the age of 20. Elders referred to rifle rampages as ”sprees”, likening them to retail a consumption frenzy. Their approach was offensively backward and moribund. So at long last, a generation emerged with no need for politicians.

This was how one found oneself standing among three strangers in a field designated by “smartphones”. It was likely the first time any of us had set foot there, though according to the Disarmory app that had summoned the witnesses, it was the 26th time a mining event—usually called a ”demo”, short for ”demolishment”—had occurred at the site. The spot had been selected for us that day at random from over a hundred in the county. Sites on public land were crowd-sourced, the finder’s fee a tiny slice of Lifecoin once verified. Other sites’ landowners ”hosted” for recurring fees whenever minings occurred on their property.

The kind of site I found myself on for that first demolishment I witnessed, on public land out in the open, had become unofficially known as a “minefield”. The man with the gun and the two bullets, standing at a designated spot about 150 meters away, had signed up for Disarmory’s companion mobile app called Lifecoin Miner. That app would instruct him—the “miner”—to demonstrate that his firearm qualified for the program, and then to destroy it. By wrecking the precious object, he would earn 87 percent of a Lifecoin—a unit of exchange that had only come into existence earlier that year. He would mine the Lifecoin by destroying the firearm in front of our cameras. About an hour later, everyone involved could turn their Lifecoin earnings into US dollars.

The rest of us would be the “witnesses”, each assigned a letter: A, B, or C. The Disarmory app had directed us to that field, along with detailed instructions and precautionary guidance. At least, the app was supposed to supply three witnesses. When I arrived and for several minutes until the target demo time, the witness who would shortly be assigned slot B stood anxious. ”They better fucking show,” was all Witness B said while we waited. She was maybe two years older than I was, black and pretty but on a mission, not a social call. When a breathless white woman in her mid-40s rushed up from the parking area, her nose buried in her smartphone, Witness B muttered, ”Oh, just our luck.” I emitted a chuckle, unsure if I was not in on the joke.

“I’m Brenda,” the woman said as she approached, pocketing her device and extending her hand.

“We don’t do names,” Witness B said, but she did shake the woman’s hand, as did I.

“Right, of course,” the new witness said. ”This is my first... one of these. My daughter, she—”

Having verified our presence and run some calculations, Disarmory chose that instant to alert our mobile devices that our slots were assigned. I became Witness C, the newcomer Witness A. The app instructed us to attest as best we could that the other two witnesses were unarmed and that there was nobody else in sight except the miner, all of which we did. Next, we scanned codes on each other’s mobile screens as part of the verification process.

Disarmory assigned Witness A to approach the miner first, to make sure he was alone and armed with no more than a single rifle and two rounds. Witness B and I wished her good luck as she set off saying, ”Here goes nothing.” We watched in anxious silence as Witness A walked to the miner. Not that I could see, but the miner demonstrated his firearm was unloaded and indicated that he had no stash of ammo within reach, sufficient for Witness A to confirm with Disarmory that the miner was compliant.

The app next instructed Witness B and me to approach. We had not said anything to each other while we watched and waited for the all-clear signal from Disarmory, but that changed once we got walking.

“It’s not your first, right?” she asked.

“Nah,” I said, feeling trapped into the lie by her tone.

“That’s good,” she said.

“It’s gonna be fine,” I said, surely failing to come off as reassuring. A lot of the miners I had seen on demo videos looked and sounded an awful lot like the people who had called me “faggot” my whole life, and I was terrified this app was going to put me face to face with one of them. My uncertainty surely bled through.

“That’s sweet,” the other witness said, “but these are always hard for me. It’s hard to trust.”

I took for granted that my fellow GenZer could see that we both had distinct reasons to be wary of this miner. She was black and presented female; I was short and scrawny, my hair dyed a shade of green I had instantly regretted, if not enough to fix the error. It was anyone’s guess which of our existences would more antagonize a hostile miner. No matter—every miner came with _two_ bullets.

“Yeah, some of these miners are fucking wretched,” I said, without adding that I knew this only from watching dozens of demo vids, which I thought made me _feel_ like I had attended minings.

“I’m not just talking about him,” she said as we continued approaching the miner and our fellow witness. Witness B looked me up and down with a sidelong glance, and finally I was up to speed on her hesitancy. This generation-mate of mine might have been every bit as afraid of me as I was of the miner. After all, I looked a lot more like some of the infamous youth rampage shooters of the era than I looked like Witness B. Back then, we did considerably more judging based on appearances and stereotypes we had publicly rejected but somehow continued privately to believe.

“Look, I’m sure this world is fucking you over plenty,” Witness B said sincerely. “But let’s not confuse what’s what, okay?”

“For sure,” I stammered. It pained me that B did not know I was harmless, but I knew better than to plead my case. The trauma inherent to youth had gotten to us all; there was little point sorting out which fears were valid in the end. Truth and trust had taken such a public flogging in recent years, nobody believed anything anymore, except people who seemed to fall for everything. They clung to their delusions as if for dear life. Young women like B only had use for narratives they could engage with. They were done being the objects of other people’s stories. Disarmory had become very much about such folks engaging with a new, powerful kind of verified truth and collective subjectivity.

These new blockchains told a stories we could all believe. Apricity introduced Lifecoin’s blockchain as a ”ledger of all the coins in existence, shared across all participating devices.” She also called blockchain technology ”truth, scaled”. I saw it as millions of nodes collaborating to establish a digital picture of reality; not a photograph, but a picture nonetheless, with every device seeing the same, undeniable image.

People like Witness B and I were far more interested in the story told by the Disarmory blockchain, which coordinated and verified the demolishments. The Lifecoin blockchain was about wealth; I had neither money nor an appreciation of it at the time.

B finished the walk in cool silence. I followed a half step behind.

When we arrived, the miner was shifting his weight from leg to leg. _Why is he so anxious?_ I wondered. _He’s the one with the gun._ Stocky and bearded, I had to look this miner over a couple of before realizing he was probably no more than 40, maybe ten years younger than my dad. His eyes were softer than I had expected.

I can assure you that all of us standing witness knew from sight that our miner was holding some flavor of AR-15. I had never seen one IRL, but everyone back then knew this rifle, or at least we thought we did. It was very popular among rampage shooters, for it was of American origin, held a lot of particularly nasty ammunition, and rapidly reloaded to dispense ever more death and mortal terror. As Apricity used to say when she “locked and loaded” an AR, “Lots of guns fit the designation, but the AR is king.”

Most of my young readers have probably fired a rampage rifle—if not an AR-15, then perhaps an AK-47, or any of their dozens of variants, descendants, and inspirations. The practice is standard curriculum and a fairly regular pastime today, at the manufacturing facilities and gun ranges that remain as interactive museums. Part of understanding Old America today is doing something most Old Americans never actually did. In 2019, when millions owned these guns and seemingly everyone had a strong opinion on them, most had never seen one up close, let alone fired one. I was among that vast majority who had not.

I had expected this miner to be an ultra-backward-looker; we still called them “conservative” at the time, in contrast to standard backward-lookers, still known as ”liberals”. I had pictured him fighting his way past doubts spread about Lifecoin on talk-radio and cable-news shows. Most ultra-backward hosts and pundits had declared Lifecoin a scam while quietly and anonymously selling off their own rampage-rifle collections to get even richer. Whatever gun owners might have heard, Lifecoin was as legit as any currency or market ever was. Lifecoin was _real_ in the sense that a lot of people were making a lot of US dollars from “mining” it. Before long, the truth of Lifecoin's rising value had become undeniable, the pundits proved wrong again with no consequence to their reputations.

Many of the people attracted to Lifecoin Miner—that is, owners of rampage rifles—had fallen for the biggest scams in history. Mind you, there were few restrictions on how you could try to extract money from people back then, so hucksters were looking for pools of gullible folks to exploit. The people who were dead-set on holding our country back made ideal targets, and they clumped around a handful of media outlets, vulnerable to any half-clever propagandist. From herbal penis-enlargement formulas and gold-purchasing swindles, right on up to organized religion and President Donald J. Trump, those most obsessed with the past bought into every scheme that came their way. The only “scam” this mob of pathological pundits had ever tried to talk them _out of_, Lifecoin was arguably among the first get-rich-quick schemes to pull more people _from_ poverty than it pushed _into_ poverty. One did not need to be poor or desperate to badly want five to 20 thousand dollars back in the 2010s, and hundreds of thousands of poor people owned a rifle that qualified for rendering.

Once each witness had scanned the miner’s mobile screen and verified his appearance as matching the photo Disarmory displayed on our screens, we were ready to witness. Miners were permitted to put on a mask at this point, but ours did not bother. The rest of us began streaming, sure to get plenty of close-up footage of the firearm. When the miner told us to stand back, we complied, three lenses trained on him the whole time.

“This is my only one,” the miner volunteered suddenly. That was not a phrase heard often on demo vids. Typically miners would not speak. When they did—usually only masked miners talked at all—chatty miners tended to insist they had an entire arsenal left at home. They must have thought this made them sound both rich and well-fortified.

Our miner was more cavalier, and quite a bit more articulate. “You all are injecting a whole lot of uncertainty into this world, you know that?” He was right to expect no response. “Of course you don’t know that. All you've ever known is an uncertain world.”

Neither the miner nor the witnesses were under any obligation to speak—but cameras were always streaming, and more than a few performances had been captured over the months, including some gruesome acts that cast a shadow over every witness's every witnessing. For miners, who were the only party in front of the camera, speaking during a demo was a great way to get turned into an Internet meme. Mind you, the vast majority of people who owned these rifles did not think that much of them, and even fewer expressed their views during minings. Many treated the affair as a simple transaction; they were getting in on the trend as short-term investors, plenty even purchasing a rifle just to turn around and sell it onto the Lifecoin market to collect and sit on the digital reward. These were far and away the most common miners—no mask, no rant.

Among those who were turning in guns they had not just purchased but _possessed_, a significant number emerged as distinct archetypes, including the “ranter”. These miners spread lulz across the world. Very few of them ever admitted to handing over their last rampage rifle (let alone did any call it a “rampage rifle” without sneering and objecting). Instead, they would insist it was at most “one of my last”, bragging about how much money they had made off us “gullible kids”, insisting they would turn around and buy twice as many once the frenzy settled down. Then the witnesses’ high-definition cameras would catch them crying or fighting back tears, and we would know they had handed over their favorite weapon.

These videos provided renewable veins of humor, all at the expense of gun “’thusers”, as Apricity dubbed people who loved rampage rifles. Many clips went viral, alone or in themed compilations. Animated gifs further distributed the humiliation of the saddest such sacks. “HOW AM I SPOSED TO FEND OFF THE FEDS COMING FOR MY CONFEDERATE FLAG?” one still image read, imposed over the masked visage of an angry miner. Another escalated the satire: “NOW I’LL HAVE TO USE MY ARSENAL OF SHOTGUNS, PISTOLS, AND CROSSBOWS TO DEFEND MY COMPOUND,” referring to reactionary militia encampments known to pepper the North American countryside. There were many variations on what those backup arsenals were for: “TO SHOOT UP DAYCARE CENTERS” or “WOMEN’S HEALTH CLINICS”. These memes were not just for fun. They helped my generation break away from the myth that there had ever been anything noble about the Old American traditions of violence and bigotry. We were ready to leave them behind, and we were finding our voice to proclaim as much.

Before I did it, I was not sure I wanted to witness a viral demo in real life. On three occasions, miners had murdered their witnesses, and on two other occasions, demos were ambushed by snipers, the miners martyred along with witnesses, as a message to “traitors” for turning against the backward-obsessed adult majority. I wanted a nice, boring miner who would shut the fuck up, smash or saw or grind his weapon into harmless fragments, and be done with it.

No such luck.

“Where do you think this leaves us? Better off? There’s no accounting for my contemporary here,” the miner gestured toward Witness A, “but you kids look sharp, and you obviously care; you get it, right?”

I was not willing to bite, and neither was B. The miner sighed so deeply I half expected to get a whiff of it from the safe distance to which I had retreated. “This is all bullshit,” he complained. “There is nothing holding all this up. Our infrastructure is falling apart, and I don’t just mean bridges and the electric grid. I mean the stuff that holds us together as a civilization. And _this_ is what you are all focused on.

“I spent my whole fucking youth trying to change all the big things that were real problems—me and not a whole lot of other people, truth be told. We tried to stop them from spewing all that shit into the air, and we tried to stop the companies from gutting the place and rewriting all the rules. But we failed, and it all got worse, and the world got hotter,” the miner continued, now holding his rifle up, though not in a threatening manner. “I got this because I’m fucking scared. Not of the feds or the Democrats or any of that bullshit. I’m afraid of what comes after. I’m afraid for my husband and our kids when it all falls apart.”

The frightened white man routine was too much for Witness B, who finally could not help pushing back. “I mean, how big are these hordes of suddenly uncivilized, bro? And why are they ganging up on you so badly that you need to spray them with ammo? Why do I suspect that in the apocalypse or whatever, you’d be using this to take from the weak, not just to protect your man and your 2.2 kids?” Witness B paused, but interrupted again when the miner started to reply. “And why haven’t you fired those fucking demo rounds, bro?”

My generation had acquired a certain form of vicarious trauma around the particular model of rifle this miner was holding. Over the course of the Disarmory campaign, we had come to recognize the entire class of weapons as somewhat equally menacing. Nevertheless, the way so many gun ’thusers held the AR-15 in such special regard made many of us hate it especially.

Killers had bragged about owning this weapon before and after marching through our schools, malls, churches, and playgrounds slaying the unsuspecting—more places that became household names than we could even keep track of. We grew up in an era of events marked by the names of black folks murdered by cops, gender rebels murdered by men, and whole massacres named after the places they occurred. The biggest spectacles of death were remembered more for the goons that carried them out than for those struck down during endless minutes of terror. All of this made the crises feel that much more desperate and hopeless.

Adults would try to reassure us that “change is slow, but it happens,” even as we saw the situation was only getting worse, and federal courts were being packed with young backward-looking judges on ludicrous lifetime appointments. Out the other side of their mouths, adults would tell us to cherish our youth. The adult electorate was a political class largely obsessed with fear of the “other”—Muslims and Mexicans, black people and queer folks, poor people and refugees, socialists and feminists. But when we considered who was killing kids and others in mass shootings, all the predators looked and sounded like our antisocial president and the swaths of people who thought he walked on water.

School shooters, at this point in the Old, added terrifying insult to the injury that was mass education. The original sin was shipping us off to be reformed into miserable wretches like most of the adults in our lives seemed to be. We spent five days a week in a dreary building, breathing in what Apricity called “the stale air of passive citizenship”, which permeated adult workplaces and government halls, as well. Our schooling, she said, was a ”shameful national project of exclusion, assimilation, indoctrination, and corrective punishment, just like our parents before us and theirs before them.” There we were expected to ”prepare for similarly stultifying toil in an adult workplace to maintain our standing in a society obsessed with consumption.”

Since the system could only accommodate a handful of relatively free thinkers, the rest would be relegated to a precarious string of physical labor or droning clerical jobs, for as long as the work or their bodies lasted. Increasingly, and not irrationally, my generation had come to expect we might well die poor and alone in a world drained of comfort and security by previous generations. Even our Millennial predecessors largely shared these dim late-life prospects. But the form and substance of school itself, and what it prepared us for, was more or less the same anesthetic slog it had been for generations: a factory for future workers, and maybe now a shooting gallery, to boot.

Because in addition to the general despair and malaise of our parents, the other factor unique to my generation was the constant, universal fear that some dude from your trig class might storm into the building, AR-15 blazing. He might kill dozens, depending how long it took him to run out of ammo or be stopped by someone else with even more bullets or better aim. Or he might just run out of victims. Unlike in the fiction we grew up with, nobody would swoop in to save us—certainly not in time. Such horrifying incidents are not unheard-of today, but GenZ bore the most and the bloodiest school massacres, all while our parents and grandparents gawked, helpless and pathetic. Before Apricity Carter and the rise of Disarmory, nearly the whole generation had resigned itself to living with this threat, unlikely yet constant.

Perhaps our miner appreciated some of the anxiety in Witness B’s voice. He jammed the magazine into his rifle and smacked it. “Protect your ears,” he advised as he slipped earplugs in. I left mine hanging around my neck. I wanted to appreciate the cracks. “Suit yourself,” the miner said.

The miner snapped back the rifle’s charging handle, which drew his first round from the magazine and chambered it, keeping the rifle pointed downrange all along. Then he shouldered the gun and immediately pulled the trigger twice in quick succession, both rounds kicking up dust in a berm about 30 meters away. The shots were louder than I had expected—startlingly so. But if I flinched, it was undetectable on my video, which caught the spent shells flinging through the air, their payloads discharged. The din in my ears from my first encounter with an active firearm was disorienting.

From about fifth to 9th grade, I frequently fantasized about saving my classmates from a whole squad of rampage shooters. The would-be terrorists in my fantasies were never enraged fellow youths stomping red-faced through the halls firing at anything that moved. They were professionals, masked and clad in police tactical gear, rappelling through windows and using mirrors to peer around corners. All the same, each would meet a bullet or two from my own firearm, usually a pistol but sometimes graduating to an AR-15 or a submachine gun, as the situation required. We all had our ways of coping with the threat, and first-person video games had taught us to imagine emergencies through the sights of our favorite virtual firearms.

By age 14, the terror was too real for my fantasies to overpower it, and my fears manifested at night, occasionally yet severely. I _knew_ the chances of getting hurt at school were low, but my sleeping mind thought otherwise. I would wake from a dream I could recount to others only as a sense of horror, rocking and sweating, intoning nonsense like, “he’s here, he’s here, here’s here.” In my nightmares those last years, the shooter was usually a different real-life classmate every time, though some nights a teacher filled in.

The last of these “night terrors”, as my grandma called them, occurred when the Disarmory campaign was in full swing. After one particularly bad mid-summer all-nighter, my older sister Maggie suggested I join the movement to end the national nightmare once and for all. “Maybe you need to take some control,” she said. ”Otherwise, this fear is in control of you.”

My parents had been less sure. My mother immediately pointed out that two kids my age had already been killed at demos.

“They died making a difference,” Maggie noted.

“They _died_,” Mom rebutted simply. “Besides, Grover, given your talents, you’ll change the world with your codes, not your death.”

Then Dad’s refrain: ”Your mother’s right. The reason we aren’t out getting rich on this craze like half our neighbors is because Parsonses aren’t fighters in the first place.”

“Who knew being a redneck would pay off so well?” Mom added rhetorically.

My big sister had an answer. ”There’s been a pretty big dividend for being white and rural in this country for quite a while. Then there was that period for like, oh, eight or so years where they were grumpy about the color of the president, and now we have this insanity, where they get to be victims of Silicon Valley _and_ Washington _and_ still make fucking bank.”

Mom and Dad just stared at Maggie. I grinned wide, providing a soundtrack to the awkward moment with a breathy, half-suppressed snicker.

”Be that as it may,” Mom said when the weight of the moment lifted, ”we really do not have a dog in this fight.”

Maggie and our parents argued for a while about whether Parsonses should act to change the world. My mind drifted; I was motivated by my need for peace of mind, and secondarily by curiosity. It seemed to me this movement was not going to succeed or fail on my contribution alone.

Of all the adults I encountered before my first Disarmory minefield, that Millennial miner was the first to bother telling me how the world actually worked. He crouched, set the discharged firearm on the ground, and rose with his hands at shoulder height, palms forward. “I apologize for frightening you folks. We’re all anxious,” the miner said. “Let’s start over.”

“Isn’t there a time limit or something?” Witness B asked. We all knew there was not. In addition to having seen plenty of demos play out across long rants, there exists to this day an abundance of contemporaneous video that prove how long it could actually take to destroy a well-made long rifle. Some miners were simply stymied by the mechanics, but there was also a hilarious rash of FAIL reels featuring miners who lacked morale, breaking down and backing out, or taking forever to work up the nerve.

Our miner shrugged and continued. “Mark my words, right onto your blockchain. I am among the 50 percent of Americans who can’t seem to make ends meet. Me and pretty much everyone I know. So as much as I worry about parting with this thing, I have kids to feed.” He looked at B. “One is from his last marriage, the second we adopted, and we never had the point-two.”

You’d never know it from our streams, but Witness B finally let a grin slip onto her face.

The miner continued. “I’ll go out and get a shotgun. And maybe we’re better off without any of these. But you’re poking a hornet’s nest, even if you’re taking away a few of their stingers.”

“Oh shit, you worked on that one all week, Dad,” Witness B said. Even now, when I rewatch the demo, I laugh every time. The miner grinned the remark off.

“Why did you give up?” I found myself asking.

“Pardon me,” he said.

“You said you tried to stop them... the companies... from fucking everything up. When you were young. Why did you give up?”

The miner’s brow furrowed, and his head cocked back slightly. ”I guess... I grew up. I realized they have us over a barrel. They pit us against each other, and they’ve been at it and winning the whole time. At some point...” the miner paused, thoughtful, then shook his head. ”I guess at some point you just cut your losses and fall in line, so you don’t starve, so you can have a family. So you can have a life.”

“And the cycle goes on,” I said.

”They’re not listening. They don’t care. We couldn’t even stab at their ankles without them stomping us. They could always divide us, turn us against each other. And they exploited the insecurities they baked into their system, keeping us in debt, wondering about our jobs and our kids. We couldn’t even afford to go to the hospital when they beat us down for standing up for ourselves. Twenty years ago, we thought we had them on their heels. ‘Another world is possible.’ Two years later, they were invading the Middle East, the cops were getting more violent. Before we knew it, we were tearing ourselves to shreds and treating each other like shit, or else we were finding jobs in the system we had just been fighting.”

Witness B sneered, ”Some of us don’t have a choice to run. The struggle comes and finds us.”

The miner nodded his acknowledgment. ”And it has long since come for me, anyway. I reached for my piece of the pie, lived my life, lost more than I care to recount, and now we turn to your generation with all our hopes, piled on top of our failures. You don’t owe it to us, but you’ll try anyway, because there is nothing left to sell out to.”

“How would you do it differently now?” I asked.

The miner shook his head. “I don’t know. Don’t use money, like all this cryptocoin shit—you can’t leverage greed to make the world a better place. That’s what got us into this mess.”

The Old was awash with absurd beliefs. After all, pretty much everyone thought it was just fine to feed most of our crops and water to industrially farmed animals. Next to no one seemed concerned that capitalists were exploiting our personal data to manipulate our habits and drain our bank accounts. Nearly everyone thought it was fine to fly jet-fueled canisters of people around the world to shop, or else to drop bombs on poor brown folks in countries they could not find on a map. All the ”optimists” around us believed mysterious forces called “economics” would work it all out in the end. Others held even more troubling beliefs, like that Jesus would return and intervene or that industries and militaries should be _even freer_ to kill us all.

I think our miner was among the few who did not believe even these common absurdisms. He might have been destroying his rifle for the money, but he had purchased it because he shared my generation’s emerging suspicions that civilization was not as stable as advertised. Every such signifier of adult uncertainty about the future gave me chills, and demo vids were filled with remarks about “collapse”, ”the coming troubles”, or ”the end of the world as we know it”. Nearly as many referenced religious concepts such as the ”Rapture” and the ”Apocalypse”, but the sheer popularity of these beliefs seemed to practically guarantee some version of social downfall.

“You don’t get super rich people without super exploited people,” our miner continued, ”which is most tragic because of how much it wastes. It wastes excess on the rich, and it wastes the potential of those whose opportunities were... reallocated to those capable of _demanding_ it.” He rubbed his thumb and fingers together. ”The billionaire may not _be_ the Klansman or the warrior or the cop, but he _needs_ them, just like he needs managers and politicians, to keep the exploited at bay. And _because_ he hurt people for a living, the billionaire’s own children will never want for anything... except a cooler world, I guess.

“Meanwhile, I tried to live right, leave things better off than I found them, even after I stopped trying to change it all. Yet I don’t know how my kids are gonna make a living or survive the heat. We are supposed to be saving for college.” The miner let slip a wistful laugh.

For Zs, like no generation before, post-secondary education promised to saddle us with perpetual debt, and the very concept of a career was becoming a generation-wide joke handed down from Millennials. Unless you were going to be a professional of some sort—and maybe even then—nobody could really explain how college was supposed to ”pay for itself” in better jobs, higher wages, and so forth. Not to mention college meant wondering thousands more times if someone with a bizarre grudge might make his way through the campus murdering us, one at a time as we flee or in groups as we cower. It meant having to keep hoping we would only fall victim of such a thing when only strangers were around us. These thoughts did not belong, and I suddenly sympathized with the miner, whose kids faced even more of this uncertainty than I did. At least my parents were both fully employed.

“Like I say, you kids are clever, and I won't be surprised if you end up with serious power. But I hope before you get too far along, you stop and figure out what to do with it. And maybe do better than using markets to solve your problems.”

It is notoriously difficult to explain the concept of markets to young people today. Anyone born after 2020 or so finds the economy of my childhood to be as uncontroversially bizarre a notion as my parents considered feudalism. Not that the world is or ever has been fair or free, but in one generation, markets have become as shamed and shunned in the New as human trafficking was in my youth. And as markets struggle in darkness today, they generally trade in goods with much lower stakes than human lives. The concept of ”liberty” is no longer associated with one’s prerogative to accumulate or pollute beyond one’s fair share.

Yet when I was young, markets were the dominant means by which society determined how much of what to make and who got to consume what goods and services. Nearly all of life’s necessities had prices placed on them, supposedly according to so-called “supply and demand”. But the world really worked according to a cacophony of variables that market models intentionally overlooked. The system’s perverse might-makes-right, winner-takes-all modality amounted to real tragedy: famine, war, death by curable disease, all the result of the desperate not having the means to _demand_ life and dignity. That system left people behind, and most people of this miner’s generation knew it, whether they were talking or not.

What the post-Reboot generation also might not appreciate is just how many kinds of markets there were. We could buy or sell nearly anything, if not at some real-life marketplace, then online, or on the stock exchanges. Then there was the massive ”black market”—the only kind in existence today—where adults traded illicit goods, like drugs and trafficked humans, while hiding their income sources from police and tax collectors. The idea was, if you had something other people believed they wanted, you could leverage your possession of that thing for as much currency as those people would be willing to part with. And of course, you could trade that currency for anything else. This was just as antisocial as it sounds, but I swear to you adults tried to convince us—and seemed themselves to truly believe—that a system based on greed was the best model for organizing society. This is not post-Reboot spin; this is how they taught their system in universities, with straight faces.

That August afternoon, the miner’s share of the digital bounty was worth about $8,200 if exchanged immediately. That was a _lot_ of money to a lot of people back then, though the value would more than double at its peak, just a few weeks later. A huge portion of those who owned rampage rifles prior to the launch of Lifecoin were financially strapped. The program became a real lifeline, largely to people who at first despised its primary aim. This is significant. People have always been willing to undermine their own material welfare in the service of abstract beliefs. So the fact that seemingly millions of die-hard conservatives were willing to destroy what was not only the ultimate symbol, but the ultimate enforcement mechanism of their backwardness, this tells you how urgently many of these folks felt they needed the money. The various “markets” really did mean life or death, for a lot of people, a lot of the time.

Of course, once newly invested miners saw Lifecoin’s value inflate a little, they were tempted to sit on their holdings. Often a new miner’s take would rise by hundreds of dollars between the time they requested an event in Lifecoin Miner and the time their coin share came through hours later. Imagine checking Lifecoin Miner in the morning and seeing your crappy old war rifle is worth $8,000, so you hit the button to request a demolition scheduling. By the time the blockchain processes your request and makes your assignment, it is mid-day, and the gun is worth $8,100. By the time the event is over, you might be at $8,200 or even higher. Some spikes were far greater than that example.

Once they were invested, even ’thusers’ opinions of rampage rifles tended to suffer as they saw what looked like free money spawning rapidly in their account. When Lifecoin’s value would drop—which it did frequently—some of them would panic and unload their virtual coinage. That is, they would exchange their Lifecoin holdings for US dollars or another cryptocurrency. For wave after wave of fluctuation in the Lifecoin market, those who “cashed out” would regret it when the value spiked to a new high, usually within a day or so. They publicly lamented their decision to sell their holdings, and if they had more rampage rifles, fear of missing out on the trend pushed them right back out to the digital mines.

Before Lifecoin, the vast majority of the rifles demolished under the program would have been worth less than a thousand dollars. Suddenly, this object that was valued by its owner mostly for its symbolic status could feed a family for a long time—at least, smashing it to pieces could. For those gun owners who were not hurting financially, letting go of just one might fund a memorable vacation or a remodeled kitchen, or at the peak, a late-model used car.

These were the things that mattered at the time, and this greed led to lots of attempted fraud, made remarkably easier by currency. The randomness of witness selection was thus key. Since none of us knew who else would be at the site, we were unable to conspire to fake the demo. If anyone learned of the location and attempted a crime, we would be suspected of conspiring with them, since locations were private and encrypted until after the event. I have since come to understand that the Disarmory founders also wanted to maximize the number of people who felt “ownership” of the movement, in the parlance of the era, even if that meant paying some of them to witness.

Most witnesses donated their earnings back to the Disarmory Trust, which funded charities, grassroots activism, and campaigns to convince politicians to ban the manufacture and import of the entire class of firearms. By midsummer, the preposterously wealthy Trust was conducting logistical operations for one the largest nonviolent civil disobedience campaigns in US history, spread across dozens of firearm manufacture and distribution sites. This it carried out in addition to extorting Congress into banning rampage rifles.

Apricity had no problem fighting dirty against the institutions that had laid waste to our future. The Disarmory Trust was a barely above-the-board organization that existed mostly in the ether and used the capitalist’s own tricks against him. It should have signaled to adults that their progeny had evolved to outsmart them, as they had long joked we would. But arrogance begat ignorance; elders could not help but underestimate Apricity’s threats and the profundity of her generation’s rage.

The first person I encountered ”in the wild” who had truly noticed my generation was this ranting elder Millennial miner, who kept speaking as he picked a welder’s mask up off the ground. “I can tell you two are both cynical as fuck.” He looked back and forth between B and me. ”You’ve already decided you’ve lost, haven’t you? You feel like you’ve been disarmed before you even got to the fight.”

“Are we still talking about guns?” I asked.

“No,” the miner said. “We’re talking about the weapon _you’re_ holding right now. That can kill lies.”

I assumed he meant the camera in my mobile, and maybe he did. That would not have been much of an insight. The _real_ weapon would turn out to be the invisible network binding me to the other witnesses and the miner himself—or at least that type of network. With such a tool, we would change almost everything, in large part by establishing a sense of truth. We would do it mostly not by killing, recording, nor even hacking, but by _collaborating_ on a scale never before contemplated. In just a couple years, we would finally stop asking and start doing, but I knew nobody—except this Millennial miner—who was so much as hinting at such things at the time.

The miner was right about something else, too. Disarmory and Lifecoin likely worked so well because the project was founded by young idealists, rather than the usual entrepreneurial suspects in the cryptocurrency game, or the “pragmatic” activists of the time who were addicted to performance-based protest and being able to claim they were on the right side of history. Between sketchy Gen X investors and Millennial tech bros almost exclusively interested in Bitcoin and other currency applications, the realm of digital cryptocapitalism was a rogue's gallery of ghoulish grownups. When a bunch of Zs beat them all at their own game with Lifecoin, they should have taken note. Yet despite having hundreds of years of "real life" experience with "real" markets, Wall Street watched the blow land without learning a single lesson. Their precious markets would remain vulnerable to our manipulation into the ’20s, when we would come unified and fully coordinated. Even though Disarmory broadcast the demise of their Old way as early as 2019, all their backward-looking minds could think to do was seek out new things to destroy into cryptocurrency. No other such attempt would be remotely as successful as Lifecoin.

The miner put his welder’s mask on and picked up his torch. As if he could sense my disappointment that his speech was over, he pulled his visor up so he could be seen and heard again. “One more thing...”

“_This_ loquacious motherf—” B said, before talking herself down.

“...I’m sorry we failed you.” The miner looked back and forth between B and me. “Getting us to destroy all these won’t solve much.” He looked into B’s lens. “Everywhere else, pistols are doing all the killing, whether it's by cops or gangs or husbands or suicides.”

“That’s two more ‘one thing’s,” Witness B noted, declining to conceal her contempt for what was by no means a helpful observation on the miner’s part. “We’re not out here to save the world, Bro. Let’s just focus on this one little part of the problem for now.”

More determinant than the violence of that era was the loss of faith in our elders. Young people have always eventually realized their parents’ personal failings. Zs, however, had to come to terms with the fact that our parents had wrecked our planet and dispossessed us not only of fortune, but of basic health and security. In 2019, we were just starting to glimpse the coming disaster. The folks who had borrowed against our future were not about to disclose the scope of their crime, and most of them were performing psychological gymnastics to conceal it from themselves, in any case.

It was hard enough coming to understand, as my generation did, that our elders could not protect us. In the 2010s, we came of age to find many adults did not even _want_ to protect us, putting their ideology and their affinity for past ways above our very lives. The backward-lookers had drawn a line in the sand. In the face of such hostility from such bullies, our parents’ criminal fecklessness was on full display.

As fortune would have it, a generation arrived with a future laid waste by elders at roughly the same historical moment as technologies that would enable us to force-quit their whole system. Disarmory was toying with a very adolescent version of that tech. The first adopters were mostly activists. A lot of folks early on purchased firearms from private owners in order to take them off the market forever using Lifecoin Miner, even if it meant losing a little money in the process. Another few hundred of the first miners were gun owners who had experienced a change of heart and wanted to make a point of it.

Some people would participate as collective action, a dozen or more purchasing qualifying firearms from the same shop, along with a box or two of ammunition between them. The groups would disperse to demo them at many different sites within hours of each other. This was the kind of activism Old Americans had come to expect: symbolic, even high-risk drama that demonstrates you’re on the right side, while at the end of the day, little if anything has changed, and the system is very much still intact. Those truly in charge comfortably ignored nearly all protest. It was never clear to us why elder generations believed standing around and chanting would change anything. Then again, apparently most of them did not, as so few of them even did that much.

Scenes like these demolishments had carried on for the first couple of weeks or so of the Disarmory campaign, when the initial 100,000 or so firearms were destroyed, with the coin value floating between the initial value of $300 and a healthy $450, gobbling up lots of pre-owned rifles. This was the social proof that the gimmick could “work”—the apps and blockchains functioned; lots of guns got crushed, slashed, and smashed; people bought into and out of the currency using exchanges. Still, there was a major hurdle between this proof-of-concept phase and the explosion of Lifecoin’s value: the rising value would only spur more production of rampage rifles, threatening to flood the very market activists were trying to drain.

Once a massive, investor-backed direct-action campaign resolved the supply problem, “speculation” on Lifecoin shot its value through the roof, as they used to say. When it appeared that the anti-rampage forces had the upper hand, investors started collecting Lifecoins—buying them off miners and other holders for the most part, though it was trivially easy to mine several coins in a day if you had the guns. Investors were betting that the value would keep rising, which in itself spiked the price from $659 to $2,330 in less than two days, then fluctuated wildly for weeks. The miner’s portion of the coin effectively set a new shelf and street price for pretty much all rampage rifles from then on.

Demo proof videos started dominating the major streaming platforms like YouTube and Twitch, tens of thousands per day. Gun store shelves were quickly emptied at exorbitant prices as a wave of Disarmory witnesses flooded the app to accommodate investors’ demand for demos. At its peak, the network’s capacity was strained, as there were not enough qualifying locations scouted, since for safety reasons only a small fraction of the sites could be in use at any given time. This triggered a cleverly coded additional market for verified location scouting, which resolved these stumbling points within days in June and again in early August. I detected no sign of a strained network on the day I witnessed one of more than 120,000 demolitions.

Back in that minefield, our miner was finally content that his point had been made, so he commenced demolishing his AR. The method was left up to the miner, as the Disarmory founders had not wanted to restrict the means of destruction, so long as “severe, irreparable damage” was done to the firearm’s entire receiver. Every qualifying rampage rifle type was diagrammed in the Disarmory app, so witnesses could verify exactly which parts had to go. For up to 60 minutes after the demo, video would be reviewed by remote witnesses who would collect a tiny share of the coin for verifying our verification.

Our miner fired up his blowtorch with a _woosh_ and worked across each vital area of the gun several times. White sparks flashed like luminous confetti as concentrated heat gouged metal. When the sparks were done raining, we moved in close to capture the damage inflicted upon this once-menacing object, at last inert.

The destructive climax itself did not feel as momentous as I had expected it would, but I did have some sense of participating in history, and that was exhilarating. The witnesses let out a collective sigh when the deed was done, but I felt less moved than I had anticipated. Our event was uneventful, and we were relieved, but there was no revolution or revelation for me yet.

When we were done recording, our miner quietly offered each of us a souvenir from our shared brush with history. Witness A and I accepted artifacts, the rifle’s polymer stock my prize. I would forget about it before arriving home that day, and it would end up buried in the back seat of my sister’s car. Witness A took the barrel We all departed without ceremony, my own most-exciting Disarmory demo tale of little note. (You might want to get used to this memoir not aligning with the hero’s journey.)

We set off in two different directions, the witnesses heading back toward our cars, escorted by a stark sense of relief. Witness A was the first to voice it. ”I’m glad that’s over with.”

“Me, too,” I said.

“Do you guys do these all the time or something?” Witness A asked.

“Whenever I can,” Witness B said.

“Same here,” I said—a commitment more than a report.

“What a rush, though, right?” Witness A said. ”I mean, we totally just got rid of a fucking assault rifle. It was scary as hell, though. It can’t possibly be scarier to sit in a classroom and probably never hear a shot fired than to come out here over and over and face these men?”

Miners and other critics of the campaign would often call young witnesses hypocritical, since the odds of being killed while witnessing a demo were many times higher than the chances of dying from anything on a school campus. Adults were constantly quoting statistics about the probability of dying this way or that, as if dying was our only fear. We did not want to be in the same building, town, country, or planet as these incidents, and we cared about more than just ourselves.

We always did appreciate that there was a nearly nonexistent chance of ever being on the campus a school shooting, let alone wounded or killed in one. In fact, my friends and I reminded each other during moments of anxiety that it was ”super unlikely” someone would open fire in the building. Not even the mean janitor everyone said had a Swaztika tattoo. It was hard to take comfort in the reasonable certainty that when the inevitable next tragedy occurred, it would claim only the lives of kids just like us, who happened to be strangers to us.

Justifiably, we had come to see anyone possessing these instruments of death as dangerous by definition: if not themselves today, then maybe down the road, perhaps by letting the gun fall into malicious hands, as they had so many times before. Enough was enough. Disarmory had no interest in compromise and, refreshingly, no need or even ability to entertain one.

Apricity Carter’s response to the ”hypocrisy” challenge was everyone’s favorite. During an “Ask Me Anything” session on the popular news and discussion site, a participant queried Apricity about the risk she was asking young people to take by witnessing demos. She replied: “In forming Disarmory, we have taken away their ability to kill us for their cause. From now on, if we die, even if it’s at their hands, we die for _our_ cause.”

Most of us did not know it yet, but we were collectively flexing our muscles and growling, as much to attract and impress allies as to intimidate our foes. Apricity was signaling revolution long before she would admit it to a single soul. When I think of the way Witness B seemed to see right past Disarmory to the next phase, like she was on Apricity’s wavelength in a way I was not.

“What makes you an expert on how scary it is to be at school today?” Witness B asked after pausing to think better of it.

“Oh, don’t get me wrong. I know it’s plenty scary. My daughter is why I’m here today.”

“Your daughter is making you do the right thing?” Witness B asked.

“Who else is there?” Witness A asked back.

Throughout this book, we will encounter beliefs so absurd that you will have trouble believing they were prevailing views at the time. But Disarmory presented a rare moment when the Old country, including a majority of the grown-ups, actually demonstrated a capacity for reason. On the matter of rampage rifles, a lot of Old Americans did not identify with the falsehood that this kind of weapon contributed to anyone’s freedom. A lot of Olds liked firearms, and a whole lot of Americans admitted to being fascinated with rampage rifles, but by the time Apricity Carter was done with them, nobody wanted to admit _needing_ a rampage rifle.

During one of her most-loved viral vids, 17-year-old Apricity achieves a top score in a professional self-defense firearms course, taking out three fast-approaching targets with a classic revolver pistol. For each target, she shouts a warning—“Halt!”—before firing two shots in quick succession, with the whole thing over in just shy of four seconds. Then she ejects the handgun’s ammo cylinder, casings tinkling on the floor. She turns to the camera, blows on the barrel, and sneers: “Hey, tough guy. If you need a rampage rifle for home protection, you have shitty aim or too many enemies. Either way, you’re better off coming out with your hands up.”

Prior to Disarmory, it had been easy to underestimate the sentiment that had built up against rampage rifles and the National Rifle Association, a powerful organization funded by gun manufacturers and dealers, all of whom had an interest in manipulating politicians. Because we saw nothing done at the highest levels, it often felt like nothing was ever achieved at any level. In truth, many states were tightening their laws due to public pressure. This was not enough, but it gave us hope that favorable sentiment would spill over as we needed it to.

That was the state of the issue before 2019, when Apricity and other survivors of the 2015 Bedford High School massacre took the matter of rampage rifles into their own hands. The rampage shooter targeted them as a group of environmental activists that met across three art rooms during lunch at their large high school in New York’s Westchester County, just north of New York City. The survivors had the advantage of largely shared values and worldview, all in a state with an unusually restrictive stance on weaponry. Several of the Bedford survivors were radicals like Apricity; they recognized the legal and political systems for the shams they had always been and knew better than to put their hopes in them.

In Old America, most big conflicts between aggrieved parties and the people who harmed them were resolved through a court process that used money to redress human misery. Monetary transactions were like prayers in the national religion, so this notion of “justice” was accepted by the rich and the powerless alike, even as it served them very differently. When it came to injustices like mass murder, the perpetrator was either dead, imprisoned for life, or “in the wind” as a fugitive, so there was nobody to sue for ”compensatory damages”. When they tried to go after schools or police departments or municipalities, plaintiffs had to prove extraordinary levels of negligence on the part of authorities. This had never been successfully done. Neither school administrators nor police authorities had any inkling that a group of high-school environmentalists would draw such deadly attention from a fellow student. In the past, courts had failed to reward plaintiffs who had far better cases.

The Bedford High survivors were primarily determined to get a different kind of justice, even if it would wind up every bit as perverse as the traditional American form. Apricity’s core group received a grant in 2016 that enabled them to pursue a sophisticated solution Apricity had dreamed up. Today, when O-Zs teach small children about Apricity Carter, we talk at some length about her initial claim to fame as the “inventor and destroyer of rampage rifles”, but we note that she was a survivor of a school shooting almost as a point of trivia. It was never trivial that the leader of the movement that nearly extinguished these dastardly weapons had just as nearly been killed by one herself, but most adults found her whole story “too traumatizing”. They would prefer just to sign a petition or purchase some Lifecoin, rather than hear the details, which only served to frighten children.

Apricity disagreed. She recounted her experience of the rampage, in horrifying detail, every chance she got, with different descriptions of familiar details, as she had sensed them in 2015. First _as sound_—doors kicked, shots rattling through the hallways, “at least three cracks for every round actually fired,” she recalled, and a “sea of blood-curdling screams of people whose voices you recognized”, which continued “until there were only shots and a sickening, low wailing” as the gunman neared; then as _sweat_ and _nerve_, while she and three other kids tried to ambush the shooter; then _as blood_, theirs, hers, not enough of the killer’s; then _as agony_. And finally as _stillness_, left with blood slowly filling her chest cavity and impinging on her lungs, “waiting for breath to become impossible”.

“How many more years does your daughter have to run active shooter drills?” I asked Witness A.

“She’s twelve. She signed up for Disarmory on my phone, then she asked me for a ride here.”

Witness B and I looked at each other and smiled.

“She sounds like a fighter,” B said. ”We need more like her.”

Before Disarmory emerged in 2018, all we knew of Apricity Carter was that she kept telling the story of her wounding during the Bedford High rampage, and spectacularly shooting guns on YouTube before destroying them just as spectacularly. There was this way you could be an insignificant celebrity at the time, through some mix of social media and occasional cable news appearances. Apricity appeared on several national morning TV shows and some streaming programs, as well, ramping up to the ultimate round of late night “broadcast” TV shows. As far as most of us had been aware, she was just another activist trying to get attention for her cause, or maybe herself.

In a popular video on her YouTube channel, Apricity challenged us to wonder where the justice was in a society that could force children to congregate in a building five days a week but be blameless when that building became a child murderer’s ideal killing grounds. “These two things cannot both be true in a just society; either we have freedom of association, or those forcing us to be someplace ‘for our own good’ must take responsibility for _everything_ that happens there.” At this point she grinned at the camera and added, “You might think I’m arguing for greater accountability for authorities—and I’d take that, were it actually on offer_—_but in truth, I’d prefer freer association, and that’s something we can claim for ourselves. We don’t need any offers or even any authorities. We don’t have to march into their death traps for daily indoctrination.”

When a lawyer in Houston saw Apricity’s video, she offered to try Apricity’s argument as far as she could take it in the courts, as long as Apricity would keep taking her case to the public. The Whilloughby kids accepted. Still not expecting that branch to bear fruit, Apricity and her fellow students prepared to confront their enemies not in the courts but in real life.

Out in that real world four years later, Witness A was dead set on looking backward. In response to B praising her daughter, Witness A said: ”What we need are for politicians to do their jobs and get rid of these things. They work for us, not the gun companies. You kids should not have to be out here doing this.”

“But we do.” Witness B stopped walking; A and I followed. ”We do have to be out here. Because they _don’t_ fucking work for us. The politicians’ only job is to keep getting elected, which costs money.”

“That miner was right,” Witness A said. ”You are cynical. Though I can’t say you’re wrong.”

“We don’t have much choice,” Witness B replied. ”Like Apricity says, ‘There is no justice; there’s just us youth.’ We’ll make it where we can, however we have to. Your daughter will join us soon.”

For Disarmory, making justice meant convincing gun clutchers to destroy their own firearms. Unlike most adults who had taken up the issue of gun control, the Bedford High survivors learned all about guns and the way gun ’thusers thought and argued. They also learned how to use strong words the way the most extreme backward-lookers of the era had practically mastered. Their first original contribution was to simply define the threat. They identified a class of firearms they called _rampage rifles_ and declared them all “a _public menace_ that must be _rendered harmless_.” They used these terms relentlessly, until the media picked up and made them mainstream, the way they habitually normalized rightwing terminology and talking points.

The Bedford High attacker was 17, himself a recent dropout. He used a Ruger Mini-14 rifle and ammunition gifted on his 16th birthday by the very father the killer hoped his rampage would impress. His father despised environmentalists, blaming them for the loss of his job. The company he worked for decided to take advantage of more lax regulations overseas. The family’s news sources insisted activists like the ones operating out of Bedford High were going to ruin the economy and the country. Popular websites targeting youth reinforced this worldview and posited that terrorizing activists would dissuade their protest.

The killer’s Mini-14 fired the same ammunition as an AR-15, but this gun was perfectly legal in New York State because it did not look as menacing to politicians and the concerned parents pressuring them to ”do something”. The killer’s 30-round magazines were illegal, but they had been purchased legally as 10-round mags, the limit imposed by a tiny metal rivet blocking the spring. It took the killer just seconds to triple the capacity of each.

New York State’s ”SAFE Act” gun laws had not protected Apricity and her friends at all. The class of particularly dangerous firearms was much broader than the phony category known as “assault weapons”, the definition of which included superficial criteria, as gun defenders were quick to note. To qualify as a _rampage rifle_, a firearm had to possess each of three functional characteristic_s_. Apricity’s March 3, 2018 _Washington Post_ opinion piece put it best:

> Weapons especially suited for rampage killings (1) fire high-velocity rounds, (2) potentially hold a high-capacity magazine, _and_ (3) fire at a semi-automatic rate. In our testing, modestly trained users of nearly _any_ weapon in this class were consistently able to shoot about 19 additional unarmed people on average, 12 of them critically, compared to preferred firearms from other classes. No other category of legal firearm remotely compares.

There were numerous models in the newly defined class, but it clearly excluded guns if their main purpose was hunting or self-defense, or if they were effectively less deadly than a high-capacity 9mm pistol, which Apricity herself regularly demonstrated were quite lethal at close range. Rampage rifles were significantly deadlier than pistols, especially at medium and long distances. Most importantly, Disarmory’s criteria were simple and consistent; effective policy could be based on these three features—as could a digital currency’s “proof of work” requirement.

It is hard to convey how much this mattered to the campaign. ’Thusers at the time consistently claimed that since advocates of stricter laws did not understand the technical details of firearms, they could not make sensible policy. It certainly was the case that the countless permutations of gun types and characteristics blurred any lines demarcating which guns were fundamentally more dangerous than which others.

To demonstrate she could handle herself, Apricity started a video series focused on “the technical dimensions of rampage killings”, as she coldly stated it early on. Within months, she had hundreds of thousands of subscribers checking out her vids, and she was developing a charisma that she interspersed with exhibitions of increasingly impressive firearms prowess.

In each well-edited six-minute clip filmed at the Disarmory Foundation’s ”Proving Grounds” in Texas, Apricity runs through the same series of actions with a different qualifying firearm donated by her viewers, which included plenty of ’thusers who just liked watching a cute black girl fire big, loud guns. First, Apricity deftly assembles each rifle from its component parts. Her actions were always so methodical as to leave no doubt she had spent a lot of time with the weapon before recording.

Next, she demonstrates superb precision with that very rifle, hitting a bullseye the size of a drink coaster from at least 150 meters, always using the rifle’s standard sights, nothing telescopic. She usually makes a remark here, something like: “Imagine you’re running away. You are a football field away, even two. But I have this rifle, and plenty of ammo.” She might shoulder the rifle again and fire at a target 200 meters down range, sometimes missing the first time but taking a breath and hitting the next. With each hit, a metallic ping reports a moment later. Once time, she adds: ”The bastard who shot me and my friends had a red-dot sight with magnification—not that he needed it. You should see me with one of those.”

In the third section of each video, Apricity disassembles the firearm, this time describing how each relevant part functions. She explains precisely what made this type of rifle the ideal armament for the rampage shooter—pretty much the same lesson every time—ignoring or even dismissing the parts most opponents of “assault weapons” harped on. In convincingly equal measure under common indoor conditions, Apricity was similarly effective with a tricked-out AR-15 as with a Mini-14 literally just out of the box.

For the climax of every episode, Apricity destroys the key components of the firearm, using various means: saws, grinders, hammers, torches. Sometimes she gets inventive, once using a blacksmith’s brazier, other times various acids and reactive materials like Thermite. A lot of people watched just for this finale, but I think most of us watched to be in awe throughout.

This was how Apricity and Disarmory took on the ’thusers and, in the parlance of the time, “totally owned” their arguments. She did it by interviewing the likes of ballistics analysts, trauma nurses, medical examiners, and firearms experts who were willing to honestly explain just why mass murderers favored these over all other guns. And she did it by showing us everything she learned, whether it upheld her position or weakened it.

Apricity readily admitted ’thusers had a point when they noted that their opponents were often more worked up about how a gun looked than what it could do. “Nearly everything addressed by existing gun laws is irrelevant,” Apricity said when interviewed for nearly two hours by conspiracy buff Joe Rogan on his massively popular podcast in 2018. “This is either because it covers an inconsequential feature or because the prohibitions are easily circumvented,” she explained. ”I don’t want to play these games anymore. I know these firearms. I have been shot by one of these weapons. It’s the bullets and the mags and the semi-auto, and nothing else matters much.”

“Pretty much every legal prohibition has been hacked by good old American ingenuity and entrepreneurial spirit,” Apricity told a rapt Rogan. “Ban pretty much any feature, and ’thusers will sell you a workaround, usually in less than 30 days and for under 30 dollars. They are just begging us to do away with the whole rifle.

“Besides, gun clutchers are right when they say folding stocks, pistol grips, bayonets, and muzzle suppressors do not make these weapons especially dangerous during rampages. Banning high-capacity magazines is not the solution, either; they are everywhere and easy to fabricate.

”Fully automatic and select-fire rifles are already highly illegal. Moreover, their extra characteristic—the ability to fire rounds in rapid succession just by holding down the trigger—is of no real advantage to most rampage shooters.”

Apricity extended this argument on cable news. “Automatic fire is intended for shooting at people who are shooting back, as _suppressive_ fire”, she told CNN anchor Don Lemon the week her _Post_ commentary broke. “Rampage shooters don’t expect resistance, and very few ever engage armed opponents, even at the end. But as long as they are firing unopposed, they do not want to waste ammo or increase the frequency of reloads. They do best with firearms that shoot twenty or more rounds between reloads, at a semi-automatic rate.

“Let me add that this is conveniently something no reasonable person needs in real life.”

Rampage killers also cherished the types of rounds fired by this class of gun, as they packed a tremendous amount of muzzle velocity behind relatively narrow projectiles. In Apricity’s words to the popular liberal site Buzzfeed: “The speed, mass, shape, and often the material of bullets fired by rampage rifles cause phenomenal damage to human tissue and bone. Some slugs will tumble inside the victim. Sometimes the slug splinters, its pieces spreading out, tearing flesh in multiple directions. As if that’s not enough—and trust me, that’s plenty—when high-velocity rounds pass through soft tissue and vital organs, they create a massive cavity many times their diameter, damaging and displacing your innards as they tear through your body. All this happens before you hear the gun go off. This ammo is far more lethal than necessary to stop an assailant in any realistic self-defense scenario. But it is ideal for mass murder.”

In 2018, an unrepentant war criminal named Oliver North was in charge of the National Rifle Association. That December, he confronted Apricity on the organization’s gun-obsessed satellite television station. Apricity would be credited and blamed months later when the network shut down even before Disarmory ramped up, but Apricity called that analysis wrong-headed. ”NRATV collapsed under the weight of its own antisocial baggage long before they messed with me,” Apricity told Brooke Gladstone, a public-radio journalist who covered the media itself. Gladstone rejected Apricity’s modesty. The narrative was too good to resist.

North opened the ”very special live episode” of his self-congratulatory show with generously edited montage footage of Apricity firing an array of North’s personal favorite types of rampage rifles, mostly taken from her YouTube series. After complimenting her skills during his introduction, North sat down with Apricity for a good-natured argument he surely expected to dominate, starting with relatively light fare. “This category of so-called ‘rampage rifles’—level with me, Apricity, and admit this is an overly broad, arbitrary grouping? For instance, a high-capacity, semi-automatic rabbit rifle could be quite deadly in skilled hands.”

“Ollie you know there’s a big difference between point-223 rounds and a lil’ 22LR. You know it’s not just a girth game; you know it’s about length and power.” Apricity’s sly double entendres made North visibly anxious. She did not pause to revel.

“Time’s up on these rifles, Ollie. Why’re you even fronting? If you were going on a rampage—which you are way too moral to do, I know, but bear with me, for instance in a Nicaraguan village with orders to maximize the death toll—why, you’d choose any rampage rifle before any shotgun or even two pistols, and you damn well know it.”

North overlooked Apricity’s digs and beamed, certain he had her dead to rights. “I would choose a 9mm semi-auto rifle, like an A4, before I would ever take a Nato L85 anywhere, I’ll tell you that right now. The L85 fits your bill; my A4 does not.”

Apricity laughed and shook her head. “Ever the clever, Ollie. That wit kept you out of prison after they caught you arming both sides in a war that killed a million people. How ever did you manage that at the same time you ensured a steady stream of massacres in Nicaragua? Which, I mean, at least you weren’t a drug dealer or something terrible like that, or you might have served some actual time.”

Apricity stared at the red-faced retired colonel.

“Wait, _were you_?” She burst out laughing, knowing full well her host’s uncharged crimes additionally involved massive cocaine smuggling operations from Colombia through Central America and into the United States on CIA-protected aircraft, even if her peers watching on our mobiles the next day had no clue who the old coot even was.

Yet Apricity immediately deflated North’s huff with an intriguing proposal. “How about you come to the Disarmory proving grounds with your favorite A4—you can have Chuck Norris sign it, or whatever—and I’ll find out just what the fuck an L85 is, and we can have us a shootout.”

The look on North’s ever-reddening face at that moment became the most famous of the memetic images to emerge from the televised exchange. “If I didn’t know better, I might think you’re challenging me to to a duel, young lady,” North chuckled nervously as Apricity stared him down.

Then came the straight-faced response that made America sit up and gulp: “Yeah, sure, why not? A thousand paces.” Some say if you zoom in close, you can see the faintest smile on Apricity’s face; others note her ”preferred winking eye” is off camera when she says it; still others insist she appears deadly serious. For the remainder of her life, whenever pressed on whether she actually wanted to shoot disgraced Lieutenant Colonel and NRA chief Oliver North, Apricity would smile, wink, or stare intently at the questioner.

It is worth mentioning that after the “Why Not Ollie” interview, our whole generation simultaneously found out that North had done everything Apricity suggested and more. He had been part of a real-life cabal that armed terrorists on two continents. It had all gone down less than 40 years prior, in the mid-1980s. Almost none of the conspirators was ever held accountable. One even became the next president of the United States. His son ran the country soon after. George Bush, Jr brought several of the other plotters back into positions of power in time to help start a third war in Iraq, after thirteen years of disarming the country and starving its civilian population. Monstrous act after monstrous act committed in the name of Old America, and our parents had shrugged them off, one after another. The revelations were nauseating. Teens know this history today better than most elders bothered to back then, even though the latter lived through it. The Old had a way of keeping open secrets safe, cushioned in apathy and interrupted by advertisements.

Our own country was littered with men like North, who Apricity dubbed “pathological patriots”: those who had committed or would commit horrific crimes to resist progress. Their permeation throughout society was arguably our biggest social problem, yet the Old rewarded them extravagantly for their misdeeds, rather than making them pay the way the poor and marginalized suffered for incalculably lesser offenses, or no offense at all. Our elders had just gone along, living in a country guilty of all this, letting it happen again and again, to us and to other countries. I’m not saying they could have stopped it if they had wanted to. But these elders somehow found it in themselves to look us in the eye and insist that a system which produced perhaps millions of such violent and vile reactionaries was not in and of itself fatally flawed, whatever else it got right or wrong.

But before she would take on the entire adultocracy, Apricity would deal with the pathological patriots’ favorite toys. A lot of us disliked all firearms, but most admitted there were legitimate uses for all the other kinds permitted by law. We were not trying to end target shooting or even hunting. Reasonable firearms experts of all ages began joining Apricity’s call and taking up her methods, essentially mocking or humiliating ’thusers into confused disarray long enough for the bigger message to settle in on the rest of us—_we can beat them_.

Nevertheless, it was Apricity who continued to make the case most convincingly, and it was her words we came to hang on. “Our society has drawn lines through the issue of weapons access many times,” she said in that 2018 CNN interview, just after defining the rampage rifle class. “Machine guns and high explosives are not allowed in civilian hands, except under rare circumstances governed by serious licenses. Certain types of knives and even stick weapons are banned outright in some states,” then a characteristic turn to the camera, “because Adult America has its priorities so straight. But you see it took a bunch of kids to properly designate this class of firearm that has only one profane purpose at which it excels in particular: _massacres_.”

To get gun lovers to totally destroy their most-cherished weapons by their own choice, however, Apricity would have to use more than reason.

Witness A likely did not know most of what I have just explained. She was probably paying some attention, catching whiffs of news on Facebook or television. She likely knew who Apricity Carter was, and she surely knew that Disarmory was the biggest phenomenon of the summer. But like most elders, she would have strongly preferred ”the authorities” deal with the problem, leaving the citizenry out of it.

She took exception to Witness B’s suggestion that kids were stuck cleaning up the messes left by past generations. ”We should not have to be out here doing this, not to mention all those people shutting down the gun factories right now. We have laws for a reason. All this energy around this stuff is great, but it could be put toward permanent solutions.”

Witness B shook her head. ”Even when they want to do right, politicians fuck everything up. It’s protesters getting arrested by your beloved government right now, not gunmakers.”

But Witness A was inadvertently noting something profoundly different about that summer. Not only were millions of people actively engaged with making change, but it seemed like we were winning, and the whole world knew it. We were making the changes for ourselves, though any honest observer had to admit many politicians were helping us out, as were other parts of the backward-looking community, such as Witness A herself.

Relief had first arrived in the form of small legal victories throughout 2018 and into the new year. To the vocal astonishment of legal experts, Apricity’s argument tying liability to the compulsory nature of schooling was showing promise in New York State courts, where a jury appeared eager to award a massive sum of dollars to the Bedford survivors and the victims’ families. The lawyers stirred their sorcery into Apricity’s logic—or maybe it was the other way around—and won their initial case in the lower court, albeit with a judge our side considered “friendly” and a jury worked up by the constant news of tragedy and possibly influenced by Apricity’s charm and rising stardom.

As it turned out, seemingly half the legal profession was already grumbling about what Apicity dubbed ”the government’s enshrined irresponsibility”, long a fount of tragedy aside from school shootings and such spectacular incidents. Schools took on tremendous responsibility when they demanded our attendance. Several other cases threatened the status quo, at least in some state and lower federal courts. Combine that with New York’s one-party governance at the time, already embroiled in a major revision of the state’s firearms laws in response to the Bedford shooting, and Bedford survivors had the ideal time and venue for success.

The state was unwilling to admit that compelling school attendance was actually placing students at risk, but hundreds of witnesses had testified that some of the victims would have been off trying to save the world elsewhere, had it not been for New York State’s laws. More and more, kids could not justify studying for a future that might not have room for us, when we could be out there fighting for a different future. Many of us were teaching ourselves practical, marketable skills at a pace most schools could not even pretend to accommodate. This was certainly true for my circle of friends, mostly artists, coders, and media producers.

While nobody believed their case would make it through the Trump-stocked Supreme Court of the United States, public patience for rampage rifles was dwindling. The defendants cut their losses, agreeing to pay the Bedford survivors nine million dollars to drop the matter. By then, Apricity had presented her idea for Disarmory to the families and other survivors that were party to the suit. They approved funding the Trust as a way to honor their fallen loved ones, with no expectation that Apricity’s plan would repay them a penny, let alone in full just months later.

Despite surprise success in the courts, the Disarmory founders maintained that the adult-run government would never move to keep these guns out of the hands of dangerous people. Before Disarmory and Lifecoin Miner launched, Apricity teased for months that she was planning to “get everyone to disarm, voluntarily, nonviolently, no ‘cold, dead fingers’ necessary.” Apricity’s group conceded that a government “round up” made no practical sense, and was likely a national nightmare with a large death toll of its own.

Besides, what it would take to move legislators on the issue was anyone’s guess before Disarmory emerged and found out. Politicians responded to campaign money, and the side paying the most for politicians was opposed to any restrictions on guns. Meanwhile, beyond having no money, the class of people most acutely terrorized by these particular weapons overlapped precisely with people not permitted to vote.

When you graduated high school in the 2010s, you breathed an extra sigh of relief that you got out without being part of a massacre. So 2020 might be the first major election in which you were allowed to vote. Years before Apricity Carter ever publicly argued for youthocracy, she tweeted, “There is something truly twisted about keeping people from deciding the future of the country precisely when they are the ones with the most future left to live.” That was one of the only times she ever spoke in favorable terms about voting in the Old American Republic.

Most of what naturally idealistic youth activists had historically wanted was unattainable within the system: ending wars, curbing environmental degradation, ensuring human rights in the US or abroad. These objectives threatened core functions of our backward society; the system was designed to accommodate or even foster such horrors, and it only curbed them when doing so was ”in the national interest”, which of course meant in elites’ interests. Ever since the financial crash of 2008 and the Occupy Wall Street movement that emerged a few years thereafter, one had to work especially hard to maintain the illusion of America as a place of equity or honor. And as we watched Americans die by the thousands for lack of ”health coverage”, it was difficult to see our government as compassionate or even decent.

Back then, it was nearly as hard to beat the system from without as it is today, but it was just as hard to do from the inside, designed as it was to resist efforts by the powerless to enact change. Apricity made the case to Late Night host Seth Meyers in an early 2019 interview now famous for other reasons, when the popular late-night host pointed out that generations of Americans had passed along debilitating platitudes like “you can’t beat City Hall,” once discovering themselves “feeling impotent in the face of the status quo”, as he put it. ”Our parents told us this, and everything seemed to be working, whatever that means. So we just went along.”

“This backward-looking permeates everything,” Apricity said, her head shaking. “Can’t you see past City Hall? I can’t really see behind you, so I don’t know what we missed, but we need to look forward. You people need to snap to it.”

“By ‘you people’, I assume you mean late-night talk-show hosts.”

“You know damn well I mean adults, Seth Meyers. Like half of adults are so bitter, they’ve become full-time trolls for one side or the other. Mostly the other. They’re thumbing their noses at everyone else, electing a fellow troll to the highest office in the land and supporting him no matter how dangerous he proves to be. The other half of you seem to be cracking jokes. A lot of them are pretty good, but they all look backward to a lie you’ve told yourselves.”

Meyers contorted his face. ”You know it’s very hard for me not to make a joke right heere.”

Apricity laughed genuinely before continuing. “Even you non-trolls refer to the fail-clown in chief as a ‘former reality TV star’. Have you watched this show, _The Apprentice_, Seth Meyers?” The predictably charmed host leaned hard on his elbows, grinned, and confirmed that he was familiar with the program for which Donald Trump had been best known before his presidential run. The television network broadcasting the show they were on had carried Trump’s show for years and years. “How was this not just an obviously rigged _game show_? Can someone from your generation explain to me how you classified this as ‘reality’ _anything_? If you think TV is reality, it’s not surprising you’re still trying to come to terms with getting punked by your trolls in 2016.”

When it came to elders, the rest were barely more helpful than the die-hard Trumpsters when it came down to it, even if we preferred their decorum. That’s why we came to refer to pretty much all adults, as well as kids who fell into their depressing worldview, as ”backward-lookers”. Maybe the “good Olds” did not support breaking up immigrant families, running down protesters in automobiles, and eliminating any non-Christian organization or program that aided the desperate. But the ones called “liberals” also knew the institutions of Old America were designed to exploit more than serve the people yet defended them vociferously when we challenged them. They looked to old ways for solutions, even though those old ways—particularly their ”democratic” institutions, including news media and social media—delivered the Trumpian nightmare on a silver platter.

Years later, Apricity would explain it to a group of us like so: “Adults think the rich and the government are so powerful, your only chance is to pick a team of elites to cheer on, or else resign to helplessly grumbling about all of them. Advocating for a different system altogether gets you ridiculed, no matter how shitty they know their system is. Something happens to them. By the time they have real influence or money, they no longer believe in change, they’re only in it for themselves.”

In a way, that realization started with a Apricity’s initial group of high schoolers and recent graduates who put no trust in conventional means of being heard. The survivors of Bedford High might not have had all of this on their minds when they first established Disarmory; yet those activist survivors divined long before most of us that “the Old way is for suckers”, as Apricity would put it on broadcast TV’s _Good Morning America_ in 2024.

The dual release of Disarmory and Lifecoin Miner in May 2019 reinvigorated what had been the “gun-control movement” at a time when its newest activists were beginning to detect that their conventional methods were not up to the problem at hand. Try as they might to work with politicians and other adult authorities, youth led by Florida teens whose high school had been attacked by a former classmate the in February of the previous year had already begun to see that America’s so-called democracy was a dead end. They had even tried using conciliatory language about not wanting to take away all the “assault-style weapons” possessed by “responsible firearms owners”. They had too often played into people’s fears of mental illness and youth, arguing to prohibit even people with nonviolent psychological afflictions from purchasing firearms. They wanted the same prohibition for anyone on the federal government’s vendetta-driven “No-fly List” that kept thousands of Americans not convicted of any crimes from being able to travel by air. The latest popular idea, which oddly seemed to come right from young people’s mouths, was raising the minimum purchase age of firearms to 21 or higher.

But that movement was maturing more rapidly than most upsurges of youth activism had in the past, largely thanks to Apricity Carter, who stayed entirely uninvovled in protests and rallies, taking her time to reseach, organize, and code. A group Youth Against Rampage Rifles had formed in early 2018, and young people generally were souring to the traditional means of activism, which entailed pestering adults with no power to pester adults with actual power. They were ready for new lessons and strategies, especially from within their own core interest group: youth. Apricity’s approach included defending neurodivergence as well as defending youth.

The earliest Disarmory adopters liked the propaganda value of causing rampage rifles to be destroyed. At first, their contribution was cash—usually a hundred or maybe a few hundred dollars at a time, but in some cases a thousand or more. Even though the Bedford kids were injecting cash from their settlement fund, these smaller contributors yearned to make a difference and formed a natural supply of activists when the time came to descend on the gunmakers and their puppet politicians.

The fatal flaw of the Disarmory strategy was that, were Lifecoin to achieve real value, it would inspire manufacturers to dump cheap, bare-minimum rampage rifles onto the market, promptly tanking the currency. This was among the earliest warnings the Bedford survivors encountered when they set out to create the world’s largest “gun buyback” program, as it was called when a government entity collected and reimbursed for firearms. For this reason, Disarmory took a “fee” out of every Lifecoin transaction, which eventually mounted to tens of millions of dollars, aside from Disarmory’s direct Lifecoin holdings, eventually worth billions. Rather than reason with politicians as civic-minded activists had done for generations to little avail, Apricity’s crew intended to emulate every other serious power player of the time: they would _buy_ legislative votes.

The Disarmory Collective’s secondary blockchain application, called Retributor, was poised to back legislation banning the _manufacture, import, and distribution_ of rampage rifles, while keeping their _possession_ fully legal. It did this by automatically funding attacks on politicians who sided with the NRA over the vast majority of the populace, including those at most risk.

Politics moved incredibly slowly in the Old, so experts believe it is quite possible Lifecoin never would have succeeded past its earliest wave of demos had a seemingly spontaneous movement not formed to blockade manufacturers of rifles in the targeted class. A few weeks into the Disarmory campaign, as critics were highlighting the very limited potential of a buyback program that drives gun prices upward, groups of activists began chaining themselves to the gates of gun assembly and distribution facilities. A group funded by Disarmory had researched and mapped out the locations of all major manufacture and distribution sites, so it wasn’t long before Apricity’s hand was detected behind the direct actions.

While these moves intent on stemming the proliferation of rampage rifles were highly disruptive and gained lots of attention, it was ironically a group of rogue capitalists who transformed the nascent gun-destroying movement from an ironic boon for gunmakers into their worst nightmare. Enter Hogan Pierce, a Manhattan-based venture capitalist who predicted he could make billions of dollars on Lifecoin, if only he could solve that pesky problem of manufacturers spoiling it all by flooding the market. When he saw people were willing to put their bodies on the line to hinder gun shipments, Pierce wondered what it would take to further incentivize a movement to completely halt manufacturing.

A team of blockchain engineers in Pierce’s sphere implemented a complementary campaign. He called it PloughShares, in reference to some Biblical passage about peace through disarmament. Pierce and a couple dozen of his closest investor friends started a fund that would at its peak set aside nearly ten million dollars a day for treatment of opioid addiction (another scourge of that time), while simultaneously spurring the end of rampage-rifle manufacturing in North America.

PloughShares was a pretty simple proposition. Pierce promoted it as an opportunity for manufacturers to “do the right thing”: For every day a gunmaker shipped rifles or parts that qualified under Disarmory _rampage rifle_ criteria, a massive amount of money would be injected into opioid addiction recovery programs and related social services for addicts and their families. PloughShares would dispatch crowd-sourced “inspectors” to every known facility in order to verify that no such firearms left each day. If vehicles exited the gates, they needed to be searched and verified devoid of rampage rifles, so manufacturers were explicitly welcomed to participate. Every day, Lifecoin investors would gladly commit a portion of their Bitcoin holdings to keep the campaign going as Lifecoin broke cryptocurrency trend records all summer.

Hogan Pierce, for his part, did not really care how the activists did it; he just wanted to induce everyday Americans to stop the flow of rampage rifles so his 800,000-strong Lifecoin holdings could eventually “appreciate” to a value of 10 billion contemporaneous Old US dollars, even after he and his rich friends drizzled a portion of their holdings onto public health to further appease their consciences. PloughShares maintained an additional fund to help workers laid off by firearms manufacturers, though this early experiment in ”distributed casework” unfortunately failed due to fraud, on one hand, and reputed inaccessibility, on the other.

Connecting the Disarmory movement to the opioid crisis was critical, if a bit cynical. In 2010s, middle-aged white men were disproportionately addicted to pain killers and the even-deadlier street drugs they often led to. The pharmaceutical industry had rewritten federal regulations to favor extreme profits at the expense of public health, destroying millions and millions of lives, upending entire families. Their manipulations flooded Old America with highly addictive, soul-destroying poisons that caused many times more pain than they resolved. This was especially true considering we always had suitable and even superior alternatives that were simply no longer as profitable.

This additional, correlated public-health motivation induced a truly broad array of people to show up to the dozens of designated warehouses and factories. Not unrelated to recent financial hard times, the most destructive opioid addictions were disproportionately concentrated among rural and suburban gun lovers. Soon, facilities across the country were mobbed by the parents and children of addicts, more than a few ’thusers among them. They camped out in numbers the authorities had no idea how to manage. Big-business gun dealers wanted the trespassers gone, but they were wary of the “optics” of police or private security taking drastic action. Before long, it was too late at most sites—the crowds were simply massive. Thousands of families moved their vacations to the closest targeted facility and made a week or two of it.

Disarmory shipped in food and portable toilets, even facilitating appearances and performances at all the sites by musicians, comedians, and other entertainers, though by the end of the campaign, most sites were self-organizing all kinds of cultural activities, internal security, and other operations. People from all walks of life were mixing in relative peace. Soon the roads around every large store of commercial rampage rifles were dominated by concerned people organizing for a common cause, the vast majority of them brand new to activism.

Over the five weeks of their existence, these PloughShares funds also put several million dollars toward countering discriminatory drug laws. Silicon Valley types sneered at drug prohibition almost as universally as they applauded market solutions to nearly everything.

In the end, the organizations backed by PloughShares wasted or outright embezzled much of the funding. They spent lavishly on perks for the adult elites making all the decisions. When reporters followed up on the treatment programs funded or established by the campaign, there seemed to be more mismanagement than actual care going on. Capitalism had a way of maximizing adults’ likelihood of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory.

Here you can see the root of the strategy later called “market Aikido”, in the face of which venture capitalists and greedy entrepreneurs would be putty for ZeroBloc to manipulate. Our observations of Lifecoin and PloughShares showed how easily greed drew influential people to honeypots. For now, they were content to entrap themselves, playing silly games that generated “wealth” from sheer cleverness, chasing bubble after bubble after bubble, as if any of it would matter in five years.

Once the supply of new rampage rifles was convincingly restricted in the early days of PloughShares, investors piled on, driving the value of Lifecoin into the world-changing zone in about 40 hours. Once the miner’s share of a new Lifecoin was valued at greater than _any_ new guns cost on dealers’ shelves that same day, the hoped-for run occurred. With no new rampage rifles coming onto the market, prices everywhere shot sky high. In fact, tens of thousands of people who had been thinking of buying one of these guns ran out to get one before the prices got out of reach, most only to turn right around and mine them within a week, often only firing two rounds ever.

I was not present at any of the blockades, I’m sorry to say. So many people have dramatic tales from the period, either from witnessing minings or participating in blockades, many of which were attacked by police, counter-demonstrators, and terrorists. Most of the drama and trauma in my life was yet to come. Nevertheless, that summer was foundational to nearly all O-Zs.

Increasingly all summer, overseas manufacturers of rampage rifles had been shipping wares to US shores. In anticipation, the unions that represented shipyard workers sponsored a second PloughShares-style blockchain, a fund that paid out for every day the union withheld release of shipments containing qualifying rifles. A blockchain-based verification system rolled out to dockworkers kept track of each “contraband” container. While this was a blatantly illegal act, the relatively powerful union had taken similar actions in the past and gotten away with them. And of course, LongShares was never an official project of the Longshoremen’s union. Eventually, union leaders cut deals with the intended recipients of the guns they’d confiscated, acquiring them at their 2018 market price and “flipping” them for about 20 times as much on the Lifecoin market. One at a time, each intercepted rifle was toted to a mining event and destroyed by a union member, generating a bit of comfort for their family and an unprecedented one-time membership fee for their local chapter. The affair gave organized labor long-lost cause to appreciate youth-led movements, and union membership saw its biggest upsurge in decades. Even before we organized blocs on Undernet, Old Americans were beginning to see the need to caucus for protection and security in changing times.

Concurrent with all this direct action, the Disarmory Trust was also funding numerous gun-critical legislative organizations, including “lobbyists”, professionals with clout and access who could urge politicians to write laws cracking down on the manufacture of rampage rifles. Most lobbyists worked against the public interest, in favor of big corporations or foreign governments. But like any profiteer, many would take on any cause for a price, and a significant handful were eager to be on the right side of history, if only to impress their Disarmorist grandkids.

And Disarmory Trust could afford any fee. A third of the Lifecoin purchases from the “initial coin offering” until the currency broke $680 were made by the Trust itself, using just a portion of the lawsuit proceeds while saving the lion’s share for strategic reinvestment to give the currency an occasional ”pump”. These early Lifecoin acquisitions appreciated in value tens of times over as the currency rose and rose.

This gave the funded charities and activist groups incentive to encourage their members to buy Lifecoin as well, since their investment would first directly contribute to eliminating rampage rifles and then help their organization through back channels. Individual and institutional Lifecoin holders could also donate their assets or cashed-in earnings however they saw fit. This influx of politicized “donations” inspired a second, much bigger wave of media attention. That wave, and the influx consistently associated with it, had propelled the movement until rampage rifles were so valuable it became dangerous to own one.

When Congress finally passed sweeping legislation that banned any further manufacture, licensing, importation, or distribution of rampage rifles, it was because Disarmory had outmaneuvered and out-funded the NRA. In early September 2019, the Disarmory Trust released its second public blockchain, which immediately spread across so many nodes it had to be taken seriously. In order to be invulnerable and undeniable, Retributor was an application that lived on hundreds of thousands of interconnected mobile devices and virtual machines simultaneously, representing a public promise to end careers. For any federal lawmaker who voted against banning manufacture, import, and distribution of rampage rifles, millions of dollars would be donated to their most-popular opponent who pledged to enact and uphold a ban in the next election.

Distributed technology enabled this kind of rapid, uninterruptable organization of contracts without a centralized authority. Retributor was just an early taste of the so-called “pendulum pits” enabled by blockchain tech. With Retributor, participants would enter and certify the results of the Congressional vote. For any member of the House of Representatives voting nay, fully two million Old US dollars would be invested in their defeat. Campaigns to unseat incumbent senators would rake in five million. Anyone could inspect the books and see that the Trust had set aside enough money to fund hundreds of opponents. Upon inspection, they would also find that the system was set in motion—nothing could stop it from unseating dozens of rightwing politicians, other than new legislation defining and prohibiting the new tactic. Backward-thinkers were not fast thinkers, however, so wildly divided national politicians did not hurry to take on such a complicated legislative undertaking, and time was short.

Only a handful of the most ideologically inclined lawmakers resisted and faced the wrath of Retributor; none earned reelection, with incumbent Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky the chief prize, leaving office fully two years before his term ran up, just to get away from riches viciously pit against him for standing his ground. Most of the reserved funds went back into the Disarmory coffers, which Apricity’s group wholly controlled. Gun clutchers cried foul; the rest of the world called them “snowflakes.”

In September, well after the ban took effect, a greedy entrepreneur completely unassociated with both Disarmory and PloughShares started a companion blockchain app called RRSeeker. Their platform enabled would-be burglars to pay for anonymous tips about the location and ownership of rampage rifles, then valued in the range of $20,000 US. The new platform maintained the anonymity of everyone participating and enabled tipsters to build trust pseudonymously, thus increasing the value of their tips as people successfully recovered whole collections of rampage rifles suitable for immediate mining, which they could of course do anonymously.

In the end, RRSeeker did not prove terribly effective. It had been rushed into production in response to the Disarmory campaign, and it was even more of a pyramid scheme than cryptocurrency. RRSeeker probably accumulated more media attention than participation, but it was a clever design nonetheless, and it did lead to at least several effective burglaries. It also added a couple of dead burglars to the long list of desperate people who wound up on the wrong end of firearms they were trying to steal that summer and fall. This marked the most sophisticated early use of blockchain technology to establish a crime network in plain sight, though by no means was it the last.

Even if a burglary-tips network was a flawed application, the black-market Undernet was right behind. Undernet made waves in early 2020, long before ZeroBloc launched on it. Here we see another clear use of the master’s tools against him, from Bitcoin to Lifecoin, and from RRSeeker to Undernet, which got its start solving a 2018 ban imposed against online communications platforms that served sex workers and their clients. Undernet would expand to coordinate access to reproductive healthcare in places where it was effectively banned by the religious fundamentalists in power. Much more emerged from Undernet, including a platform for funding and practicing reliable journalism and several direct-action activist “blocs”. But RRSeeker’s descendant was a platform for treachery, as well. It quickly became a means of abducting and ”trafficking” humans. Undernet also eventually brought rampage rifles back to US shores.

Regrets aside, the Disarmory campaign taught us more than economics and technology. Our generation learned that adults had always been wrong about youth. After that summer of 2019, nobody could accuse Zs of being self-centered do-nothings the way they dismissed Millennials. Those poor M’s had never stood a chance, and neither had their predecessors. The technology necessary to assert the distributed power of youth as a class was not invented until after their generations bought into the Old way. And the notion of youth liberation had barely been muttered over the centuries, until Apricity Carter’s next campaign codified it.

Fortunately for the world, Millenials’ investment in the status quo proved tenuous. Once Zs offered an alternative future, first in the form of Disarmory, later as ZeroBloc, Millennials were natural allies. Add a smattering of well-placed operatives among the older generations; we were unstoppable. This all dampened the antagonism of class conflict in the ’20s, which allowed for youth to proclaim and define our own enemies. No matter how bad the case looked against adults, we found pity and simmering resentment more appropriate than rage and revenge, for the most part. It was the governments, corporations, and churches of Old America that had sewed the seeds of our ire, so it was these institutions and their active collaborators who reaped our wrath.

In the process of extinguishing an estimated 99 percent of the rampage rifles in civilian hands, we also partially disarmed many of the reactionaries who would later try to stop us from reorganizing society for justice and sustainability. Whole police departments handed over their arsenals, gun by gun, in order to fund new squad cars and pad the commissioner’s pension. Likewise, neo-Nazi and other hyper-backward militia organizations tore themselves apart over whether to turn in a share of their stockpiles and personal collections to fund the rest of their nefarious operations.

We rejoiced.

While they were tearfully converting their rampage rifles into Lifecoin with saws, sledgehammers, grinders, and blowtorches, backward-lookers angrily accused us of trying to leave them vulnerable to the federal government or foreign invaders. Their 20th century worldview would damn us all. They obsessed over the ghosts of a former country that existed mainly in their fantasies, but all the real threats were still ahead of us. The war they believed they would wage against the “cosmopolitan elites” and the federal government with their AR-15s and Kalashnikovs would come about very differently than they imagined. And do you think they lined up to thank us when we deleted that government and the elite class seven years later? Of course they did not. Instead, they tried desperately to stop us the whole time. They came after us with pistols, shotguns, machetes, and as if to prove Apricity right, they often used automobiles. But from 2020 on, even as attacks grew much more frequent, the pathological patriots and their ilk used notably few rampage rifles.

Lifecoin was a particularly ephemeral phenomenon, and a whole lot of people lost fortunes on the other side of the bell curve. Fatefully, venture capitalist Hogan Pierce and the Disarmory Trust were not among the losers.

Most gun manufacturers survived the tumult. Since the all-permeating state of fear that had risen in crescendo throughout my short life only grew with world and domestic events in the following years, the remaining firearms classes grew in popularity, with lots of brand-new guns hitting the shelves.

Our miner was right about a lot. Disarmory had little impact on inner-city homicide statistics, nor on rates of domestic abuse or suicide or deaths by police, but neither did it create an excuse for the state to turn on communities of color in some awful confiscation scheme. And Undernet, indirectly attributable to Disarmory, spawned a rash of horrific crimes as well as a way out of the Old. There were so many costs, the leading lesson was that markets inevitably lead to compounding trouble and wildly unpredictable byproducts, whether they address some originating problem or not.

In the end, most industry experts believe the total cache of rampage rifles left unscathed by the Disarmory to be under 50,000, a mere sliver compared to the 28,304,222 such firearms eliminated. Even after Lifecoin collapsed, the value of these scarce guns remained so high, illegally purchasing one had become quite an affair, and proliferation was minimal. People paid large sums of money just to fire extremely inexpensive ammunition at commercial ranges that popped up everywhere. Whole ’thuser families rented time on “classic battle rifles” and such. Possession and nonviolent use of rampage rifles stayed legal all the way through the Reboot, though it remains to this day unwise to publicize one’s personal possession of such a device.

The Disarmory campaign was considered the most heavily documented and verified project ever carried out, though of course ZeroBloc would outdo it by an order of magnitude before the Reboot, and by a few more orders as of today, two decades on. Apricity inspired us to operate on grand scales, but truthfully we are still catching up with her vision.

The lessons I learned on the minefield that day engendered no sense of hope. The miner’s cynical lament about the predominating system resonated like the crack of his 5.56mm rounds, reverberating in my mind’s ear for years to come, making me focus on survival and “getting rich quick”, which was a thing tech geeks like me could plausibly entertain doing at almost any age.

Yet what that first miner suggested about the combined power of youth and technology left no lasting impression, I am embarrassed to admit. Even though I was a self-proclaimed ”progressive” and already fairly adept hacker, I would have to see the phenomenon to believe in it. Fortunately, the rest of the Cell\[0\] collective did not wait around for me.

Nothing Witness B said surprised me. I had been listening to young women like her for a long time; I already believed in them. Adults were a different matter altogether. When I departed that day, I thought I had met two more adults who were not part of any kind of solution we actually needed, having too long been a minuscule part of the problem. But people like them would come through for us when it mattered, and only them would I appreciate that first miner and Witness A struggling for the New with us in the next decade. The last things my fellow witnesses said that day should have hinted at what was to come, but I would not recognize it for years

“That miner was right about something else,” Witness A said just before we got into our separate cars. ”Something feels different this time; youth is different for you. Very different. If this Apricity takes on the big problems the right way, I think I could be on board. But I must also agree, this doesn’t quite feel like the right way.”

“When the time comes, we’ll be expecting you,” Witness B said, getting into her car.

I climbed into Maggie’s car. She drove, offering to let me choose the music, but saying nothing else. To keep my commitment, I witnessed three more minings that summer, all of them less significant than the first. Two of the miners were flippers, and the one I suspected was a true ’thuser never made a peep. I supported the direct-action campaigns, even though my main summer project demanded too much of my time for me to so much as visit a besieged distribution site. Of course, there was plenty of movement work for people with my particular skills to do in our spare time. All of my hacking, doxxing, and trolling was anonymous and fungible, a mere drop in the bucket of a mass movement that was by then a _fait accomplis_. It would be years before Apricity would drag me back into the crosshairs of history.

My nightmares ended that summer, though I cannot say if it was my participation or Disarmory’s massive success that settled them down. I also dropped out of school that fall to continue working on the project that would lead me back into Apricity’s sphere. Nothing school had to offer made much sense to me, since I was already working on an idea that might lead to wealth, or at least help me land my first full-time coding job. Tech companies did not ask about diplomas.

My engagement with history will end seven years later in another nondescript field, soaked in Apricity’s blood and covered in the brains of another friend. Both of them chose the hail of incoming fire over surrender and captivity—acts I instantly envied but lacked the nerve to replicate. Even though my personal story and the history of the New had at least twenty hard years ahead (and counting), history left me behind in that field, blindfolded and zip-tied, anticipating torture and execution.

Whenever historians talk about my personal involvement in ZeroBloc, instead of just my technological contributions, they invariably decide I “left public life” because of my time in captivity or because of Apricity’s gurgling death in my arms, as her breathing grew impossible. Perhaps knowing how I spent the summer of 2019, you will appreciate that my revolution died not in captivity and not of a broken heart. It happened moments before Apricity’s actual death, maybe when I chambered the first round in that ghastly M4 automatic, or else maybe it was while I emptied three mags desperately trying to kill men who were determined to capture or kill me and my classmates. Like so many, my revolution died of the sense that it had all been for nothing. The forces of reaction were upon us, and my only refuge looked and fired exactly like an AR-15.

All of humanity knows tragedy today. There are virtually no elites left, and even they know loss. The Old will haunt all of us past our days. The remainder of this story tells of triumph and survival, even though we all know it ends in our globally shared heartbreak on November 10, 2026. I will tell it now, against Apricity’s wishes, if I can conjure the nerve to publish. The first children born under ZeroBlock are about to turn 25 and age out. Today’s zeros face tremendous new challenges, with half the elders clamoring for authorization, the other half for bitocracy, and youth clinging to power, like every group that has ever held power. Everyone deserves to know what happened offchain in the years before Reboot. What follows is everything history taught me while it used me up.

**End of Prologue**